Workspace workflow types : 
1. VCS driven : triggers run based on repository configuration changes
2. CLI driven : Triggers runs in a workspace using the terraform cli.
3. API driven : Triggers runs using the HCP Terraform cli.best for those with custom integrations and pipelines.

Execution modes in workspace settings : this is configured per workspace not on organizational level or project level.
-Project default
- remote : your plan & apply happens on HCP terraform infra. team can collaborate on runs within the app
- local : plan & apply runs on local machine. HCP terraform is used to store & sync the state
- agent : run your own lightweight agent to run terrafrm in isolated, private, on-premises infrastructure.

Migrating state to HCP terraform : 
---------------------------------
step 1  : change providers.tf file and just add 'cloud' block in it with organization & workspace name and tags.
step 2 : now run $terraform login then copy token from browser and paste in terminal again.
step 3 : now run $terraform init
step 4 : when u run terraform plan it will give error as we haven't added env variables from local machine to terraform workspace
          as remote exection. so add env variables now

Automating runs wth VCS Driven workflow : 
step1 : git status in the terminal , git add *.tf in the current working directory.
step2 : git commit - m "initial upload" then git push
step3 : connect workspace > settings > version control > choose Github.com > choose org and repo > choose VCS trigger type : branch based
        or tag-based.
step4 : make some changes to code and repeat above steps till git push then HCP terraform automatically plan it and we have to approve it. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
Organising your work with projects : 
Organization  : Your top-level account in HCP terraform. It holds all your teams, projects, and workspaces and is where u set organization
                wide settings.
Project : Organizes related workspace together. Lets you scope team permissions. variable sets, and execution modes to a collection of 
          workspaces. Every workspace must belong to exactly one project.
          every org gets one default project, can rename it but not delete it. 
          grant a team access to an entire project instead of workspace-by-workspace.(least privileges)
          Project-level variable sets : apply variables (like cloud credentials) to all current and future workspaces in the project automatically.
          Execution mode inheritance : set it at the project lvl. Workspaces inherit from their project, which inherits frm the org.
          You can move workspaces between the projects and specify a project in the cloud block. terraform 1.6+
          Only empty projects can be deleted.
Workspaces : The individual unit that manages a specific set of infrastructure. Each workspace contains its own terraform configuration,
             state file, variables, and run history.

Sharing variables with Variable Sets  :
Variable sets let you reuse variables in an efficient and centralised way, so u can set variable values once and use them in multiple
workspaces.
Reusable collections of variables u define once and apply to many workspaces.
Can contain both terraform variables and env variables.
Update a value once and changes propagate to all associated workspaces automatically.
Workspace-specific variables can override variable set values.

Variable Precedence : HCP Terraform will always use workspace specific variables over any variables defined in variable sets applied to 
                      the workspace.
                     * Priority variable sets can be flagged to override more specific scopes.
                     * CLI flags and TF_VAR_ env variables override workspace and variable set values in CLI-driven workflows.
                     * When two variables of the same scopes conflict, HCP terraform uses alphabetical order of the set names.


HCP Terraform teams and permissions
-----------------------------------
Access control hierarchy : 
Users : Can belong to multiple teams
Teams : Granted persmission at the org, project and workspace levels.
Permissions : Additive model : the highest permission always wins. Follow the principle of least privileges.

Team visibility : Visible and Secret
Team tokens : has the same level of access to the workspace as the team.

Organisational level : Broad permissions like manage all workspaces, manage policies, manage vcs settings, view all workspaces.
project level : Permissions scoped to a project and all workspaces within it ( Read, write, maintain and custom )
Workspace level : Permissions on a specific workspace such as admin , read, write, plan or custom.

PRIVATE REGISTRY : 
-----------------
using private modules using src address : app.terraform.io/<organisation-name>/terraform/<name>/<provider>
module "webapp" {
  source = app.terraform.io/////
  name = var.name
  prefix = var.prefix
  version = "1.0.0"
}

KEY TAKEAWAYS : 
  -  The private registry lets you share modules/providers privately within the org.
  -  u can also curate approved modules/providers alongside ur private ones.
  -  private modules are published from VCS repos and versioned with git TAGS .
  -  The source format includes Hostname : app.terraform.io/<organisation-name>/terraform/<name>/<provider>

Policy as Code : 
--------------
Codified rules : Security, compliance and operational requirements written as code.
Version controlled : Stored in VCS , reviewed through pull requests just like infra code.
Automatically enforced  : Evaluated on every run, no manual review required.

Policy checks : 
-------------
  - Policy evaluate the plan data before any infra is created.
  - Failed policies can block the apply entirely.
  - Sentinel policy checks also have access to cost estimation data
  - If the plan itself fails, policies are never evaluated.















