Create terraform user for aws # aws configure, 
for azure : #az login
for github , go to developer settings > choose Personel Access Tokens > fine grained tokens > generate and set validation limit > copy and paste to terraform env
variable. eg :export GITHUB_TOKEN = <value>

3 . Terraform Foundations : 
Resource Referencing : allows u to connect resources within your config , making it easy to share data b/w rsc and build dependencies.
create more dynamic cofig : Terraform can use properties from one resource in another and avoid hardcoding values, creating a dynamic conf.
Terraform automatically determines the order of resource creation based on references.
Resource identifiers :

CORE COMPONENTS AND BENEFITS OF TERRAFORM : 

1. Terraform core : Cli tool that provisions and manages infrastructure resources as defined in terraform config files.
2. Providers : Extends the functionality of terraform for specific platforms, such as public cloud providers, SaaS offerings,etc
3. Resources : Infrastructure components or services that are managed by terraform .
4. State : How terraform maps the desired configuration with real-world resources on the target platform.
5. Modules : Reusable and sharable blocks of code that can be called over and over again.

Terraform Editions : 
1. Terraform community : command line based.
2. HCP terraform/ terraform cloud  : SaaS platform, adiitonal features, remote state mgmt, sharing modules, policy as code,etc. 
3. Terraform Enterprise : Self-hosted & managed, RBAC, audit logging and private networking,

THE CORE TERRAFORM WORKFLOW :
Terraform init : It prepares the environment to run other terraform commands. Downloads the required providers and modules used in the
                 terraform configuration. 
                 At the start of a new project or anytime u add, remove, or upgrade providers/modules
                 or change the backend settings in your configuration.
                 It also configures the backend for storing terraform state & creates the lock file.

Terraform lock file : Every time u run terraform init, terraform creates or updates a file called .terraform.lock.hcl in ur working directory.
                     - locks dependency versions for consistency across your env.

THE .terraform directory : 
Terraform uses the .terraform directory to store the projects providers and modules.
the .terraform/providers directory stores cached versions of the configurations providers.
the .terraform/modules dir contains the downloaded versions of any referenced modules.
add this to .gitignore 
Q. should the .terraform directory be in version control ? 
ANS: No, add to your .gitignore file
    Contains easily recreatable files
    Can be large in size and contain platform specific files.

Q. Can u delete the .terraform directory ?
ANS: Technically, yes
     Run terraform init to recreate it.
     Useful for troubleshooting or cleaning up old dependencies.

                  























