THE CORE TERRAFORM WORKFLOW : Write > Initialize > Plan > Apply
Terraform init : It prepares the environment to run other terraform commands. Downloads the required providers and modules used in the
                 terraform configuration. 
                 At the start of a new project or anytime u add, remove, or upgrade providers/modules
                 or change the backend settings in your configuration.
                 It also configures the backend for storing terraform state & creates the lock file.

Terraform lock file : Every time u run terraform init, terraform creates or updates a file called .terraform.lock.hcl in ur working directory.
                     - locks dependency versions for consistency across your env.

THE .terraform directory : 
Terraform uses the .terraform directory to store the projects providers and modules.
the .terraform/providers directory stores cached versions of the configurations providers.
the .terraform/modules dir contains the downloaded versions of any referenced modules.
add this to .gitignore 
Q. should the .terraform directory be in version control ? 
ANS: No, add to your .gitignore file
    Contains easily recreatable files
    Can be large in size and contain platform specific files.

Q. Can u delete the .terraform directory ?
ANS: Technically, yes
     Run terraform init to recreate it.
     Useful for troubleshooting or cleaning up old dependencies.

Terraform PLAN : generates execution plan showing the changes that terraform will make to the real-world.
                  It gives u the ability to perform a dry-run.
Saving a Plan : the exact actions in the saved plan will be executed, no surprise.
                Save plan, have it reviewed, then apply later with confidence.
                $terraform plan -out=myplan.tfplan or filename.tf or etc  (filename can be anything)
Q3. How to apply a saved plan ? 
Ans: $terraform apply myplan.tfplan
-----------------------------------
RESOURCE GRAPH:
Terraform automatically builds a dependency graph from your conf to determine the order in which to create, update or destroy resources.
- Resource order in your .tf files doesn't matter
- Resource graph is how terraform achieves parallel execution.
- Foundation for understanding resource dependencies.

DEPENDENCIES : 
Two type of dependencies : 
Implicit dependencies(auto) : a reference to another resource that terraform already knows about.
Explicit : Used when there's a dependencies that terraform can't automatically detect from resource references alone. Use "depends_on" for create an
           explicit dependency.
PARALLEL RESOURCE OPERATION : 
-  Terraform processes the graph with parallel execution. processes nodes as soon as their dependencies are satisfied. Non-
dependent resources are created/modified simultaneously.
-  Default config: Terraform manages 10 operations in parallel but can be modified using the -parallelism flag
                    $terraform apply -parallelism=5
                    When to change parallelism : if u r running into API rate limiting issue or for debugging purposes.
                    
Terraform Apply : it make changes to your infra.
                  Terraform apply runs a plan first to compare your exisiting infra to your desired state. By default, terr
                  aform will prompt u to proceed with the proposed changes.
          *STATE LOCKING :   terraform locks the state file during apply to prevent concurrent modifications.
          *STATE UPDATES : State file is updated after each resource is successfully created/modified/destroyed.
          *NO AUTOMATIC ROLLBACK : If a resrc fails during apply, terraform does not rollback previous successful changes.They 
                                  remain in place.
          *RESPECTS DEPENDENCIES : Commit to version control and managed automatically by terraform.


            $terraform apply
            $terraform apply myplan.tfplan
            $terraform apply -auto-approve

Terraform destroy : destroy resources managed by terraform in the current workspace or working directory.
  *Using the destroy command : shows destruction plan first.
  *Removing individual resources from your config : Del resource blocks from your .tf files and then run terraform apply. Terraform detects removed resources and destroys the real-world resource.
  *State file updates: Once a resource is destroyed, terraform removes it from the state file as well since it is no longer being managed. 

            $terraform destroy -target=<resource_name>  Note : Also remove that resource block from config file , so terraform won't recreate it when run again.

Terraform validate : Terraform validate command checks your terraform configuration file for syntax errors and ensures they are structurally valid. It does not
                     check whether the configuration will successfully deploy but ensure your code is properly written.

  *Technical details of Validate : Does not communicate with providers. We must initialize terraform before validate as validate takes information about the data type or else 
                                   from initialization. INITIALIZE > VALIDATE > PLAN > APPLY > DESTROY



      
                    





























