What if you loose state file ?
If we loose the state file then terraform doesn't know that any infra exists so it will create new resources again if we ran terraform apply.
So we have to add IMPORT Block in our configuration file to map those existing infrastructure resources. Previously we use : 
"$ terraform import aws_instance.web i-1234567890abcdef0" cli command.

Understanding terraofrm drift : 
When state file no longer matches real world configuration is called a Drift.
when we run $terraform plan , it will show us something is changed. we have two choices: we can accept or revert.
If we have to accept then we have to run the command : $terraform apply -refresh-only  
i.e will change state file same as resources.
Now we have to change our configuration files manually so that when we run again it should match the current state

I've detected STATE DRIFT : how to fix it ?
terraform plan -refresh-only
terraform apply -refresh-only
-----------------------------

MANAGING MULTIPLE ENVIRONMENTS 
Creating multiple directories : this gives problem of code duplication
dev account : mian.tf , provider.tf local file : terraform.tfstate
qa account : main.tf , provider.tf terraform.tfstate
            or 
USE terraform WORKSPACEs  : a workspace is a named container for a separate instance of your terraform state.
------------------------
same code configuration across all env.
each workspace maintains its own isolated state.
no code duplication or manual syncing required.
terraform automatically creates a workspace by the name "default" when you run "terraform init".

When u create additional workspaces, terraform creates a terraform.tfstate.d/ directory.
Each workspace get its own subdirectory with an isolated state file.
The default workspace state remain in the root directory.

Creating and Switching Workspaces : 
------------------------------------
terraform workspace 
list - list all workspace
new - create a new workspace
select - change the selected namespace
show - Display the current workspace
delete  - delete the specified workspace

CLI WORKSPACES and HCP TERRAFORM WORKSPACES








